docs/ci.md, before:

# Continuous Integration

## Github actions

When a PR is opened a GitHub action will be triggered that runs a number of tests that validates the code.
This action is located at `.github/workflows/main.yml` in the repository.
This action will perform the following tasks:

- Run code analysis
- Run linting for each package
- Run a typescript type check for each package
- Run the unit tests

Whenever a merge happens to either the master or develop branch, a GitHub
action will trigger an Azure build pipeline.
These actions are located in the `.github/workflows` directory in the repository.
`infra-develop.yml` runs when a merge to develop occurs, `infra.yml` runs
when a merge to master occurs.

## Build pipeline

The pipelines for develop and staging/production are nearly identical.
The build process is exactly the same, but in the case of a staging build
the image gets pushed to the staging server, after which the pipeline is
paused which gives the client the opportunity the check and approve the
staging deploy and, if approved, can be pushed to production with a push of a button.

The build process follows these steps:

- Checkout repository
- Echo all the environment variables
- Start the docker build:
  - Yarn install all dependencies
  - Build the commons package
  - Generate the server data TypeScript interface from the schemas
  - Build the icons package
  - Run the unit tests
  - Download the server data files
  - Run all the JSON data validations
  - Run lokalize:import to retrieve all the translations from Sanity
  - Run the NextJs build

[Back to index](index.md)

Commit message:

feature/COR-1255-create-workflow-for-acceptance-environment (#4641)
* feature(devops): create workflow for acceptance environment

Part of: COR-1255

* feature(devops): add hotfix/* to the trigger branches

Part of: COR-1255

* feature(devops): add and update documentation on the CI procedures

Part of: COR-1255

---------

Co-authored-by: VWSCoronaDashboard25 <VWSCoronaDashboard25@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/ci.md, after:

# Continuous Integration

## Github actions

When a PR is opened a GitHub action will be triggered that runs a number of tests that validates the code.
This action is located at `.github/workflows/main.yml` in the repository.
This action will perform the following tasks:

- Run code analysis
- Run linting for each package
- Run a typescript type check for each package
- Run the unit tests

Whenever a merge happens to either the master or develop branch, a GitHub
action will trigger an Azure build pipeline.
These actions are located in the `.github/workflows` directory in the repository.
`infra-develop.yml` runs when a merge to develop occurs, `infra.yml` runs
when a merge to master occurs.

## Build pipeline

The pipelines for develop and staging/acceptance/production are nearly identical.
The biggest differences are:

| workflow filename    | triggered by a push to:                  | deploys build on:      | Sanity database | note                                                              |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| infra-develop.yml    | `origin/develop`                         | development            | development     |                                                                   |
| infra-acceptance.yml | `origin/release/*`, or `origin/hotfix/*` | acceptance             | production      | The build is always done with the branch that triggers the build. |
| infra.yml            | `origin/master`                          | staging and production | production      | Deploy to production only happens after approval by the client.   |

The build process follows these steps:

- Checkout repository
- Echo all the environment variables
- Start the docker build:
  - Yarn install all dependencies
  - Build the commons package
  - Generate the server data TypeScript interface from the schemas
  - Build the icons package
  - Run the unit tests
  - Download the server data files
  - Run all the JSON data validations
  - Run lokalize:import to retrieve all the translations from Sanity
  - Run the NextJs build

## Intended Purpose
Each environment serves a different purpose.
 - For the `development` environment, the goal is to see if the feature works as intended by the developer.
   After code is approved by the developers, it is merged to the `develop` branch and the feature is deployed to this environment.
   Here the feature can be tested for edge cases, utilising the development database in Sanity.
 - For the `acceptance` environment, the goal is to showcase the features that are intended to be released.
   When a feature is thoroughly tested, it should be added to this environment.
   This is done by pushing the feature to a `staging/*` or `hotfix/*` branch.
 - For the `staging` environment, the goal is to do a final check on all the features that are going to be released.
   This is done by merging the `staging/*` or `hotfix/*` branch to the `master` branch.
   After approval by the client, the same build that is deployed on `staging` will be deployed on `production`.

## F.A.Q.
1. What happens to the acceptance environment after the last `staging` branch is deleted and before the new `staging` branch si created?
   - The last build will remain on the server, regardless of the existence of the branch that originally triggered that build.
     This means that nothing happens to the environment, until a new trigger for a new build happens.
2. What if there are multiple branches that can trigger the acceptance build?
   - Which ever branch gets pushed to will trigger a build for that branch.
     That build will be deployed over the previous build.
     We do have the option to re-trigger a previous action manually.
     This means we are always in control of which build will be on acceptance.

[Back to index](index.md)
